



Remote ATtestation ProcedureS                               Y. Deshpande
Internet-Draft                                                       Arm
Intended status: Informational                              28 July 2026
Expires: 29 January 2027


                  Remote Attestation Entity Discovery
                 draft-deshpande-rats-discovery-latest

Abstract

   RATS Architecture defines various roles such as Attesters, Endorsers
   and Verifiers.  These roles are performed by RATS Entities.  When
   there are multiple entities in the ecosystem, they need to be
   discovered.  This document specifies the problem space of RATS Entity
   discovery and provides solutions that can be applied to entities
   performing specific RATS roles.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://yogeshbdeshpande.github.io/draft-deshpande-rats-discovery/
   draft-deshpande-rats-discovery.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   deshpande-rats-discovery/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Remote ATtestation
   ProcedureS Working Group mailing list (mailto:rats@ietf.org), which
   is archived at https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/rats/.
   Subscribe at https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/rats/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/yogeshbdeshpande/draft-deshpande-rats-discovery.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 29 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Need for RATS Discovery
   3.  Conventions and Definitions
     3.1.  Glossary
   4.  Discovery requirements
   5.  Proposed Solution
   6.  Conventions and Definitions
   7.  Security Considerations
   8.  IANA Considerations
   9.  References
     9.1.  Normative References
     9.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

   Verifiers, Endorsers, and Attesters are roles defined in the RATS
   Architecture [RFC9334].  One or more entities undertake these roles
   to fulfil the functions mandated by these roles.  For example
   Mulitple Verifiers may be required to perform the appraisal of a
   composite attester.  When there are multiple Verifiers they need to
   be discovered before trustworthy appraisal can be completed.
   Similarly, when Attesters are composite, the Verifier or an
   Aggregator in CoServ may need to obtain the Endorsements from
   multiple sources, to perform the respective functions.  These sources
   may need to be discovered to fetch the desired Endorsements.

   This document provides a generic architecture of discovery for RATS
   Entities and defines a framework and protocols required to accomplish
   discovery.

2.  Need for RATS Discovery

   Composite Attesters come with a varying degree of heterogeneity of
   Evidence formats, depending on the type of Attesting Environments
   that come with each Component Attester, for example, CPU variants or
   GPU/FPGA variants.  When Attesters are composite, they needed to be
   appraised by Multiple Verifiers.  These Verifier may not always be
   colocated.  Similarly the Endorsements for such Attesters may not
   come from a single authoritative source.  For example, CPU
   Endorsements come from the premise of CPU Manufactuerer, while GPU
   Endorsements may come from a trusted GPU Supply Chain.  In order to
   conduct appraisal, one needs to discover the entities capable of
   providing the required information to fulfil the desired role.

3.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   This document uses terms and concepts defined by the RATS
   architecture.  For a complete glossary, see Section 4 of [RFC9334].

3.1.  Glossary

   This document uses the following terms:

   RATS Entity:  A RATS Entity is an end point performing a specific
      RATS Role, such as an Endorser or a Verifier.

   Composite Attester:

   A RATS Attester, which comprises of multiple components, which are
   individual Component Attesters.

   Component Attester:  A Component Attester is a single Attester of a
      Composite Attester.  For this document, a Component Attester is an
      entity which produces a single Evidence which can be appraised by
      a Component Verifier.

   Composite Evidence:  Evidence produced by a Composite Attester.  Also
      referred to as CE in the document.

4.  Discovery requirements

   The discovery of any RATS Entity is built on the following
   fundamental aspects.

   1.  Capability

   Entities have varying degree of capabilities.  For an Attester, its
   shape and form is heavily dependent on the underlying technology it
   supports.  For example a Confidential Computing Attester from a
   specific Vendor will have a capability to produce Attestation
   Evidence pertaining to that technology.  Similarly, a Verifier
   capable of Appraising an Evidence for a specific Attestation Scheme
   can ONLY perform Attestation Verification for a specific Evidence.
   Likewise an Endorsement Service from a specific Vendor may be capable
   of providing Endorsements pertaining to Attesters it manufactures.

   1.  Trust relationships Entities need to establish trust prior to
       exchanging RATS Conceptual Messages, For example, a Lead Verifier
       may need to establish trust in the Component Verifier, prior to
       exchanging Component Evidence.  Similarly an CoServ Aggrgator may
       need to establish trust in an Endorsement service, before it can
       obtain the Endorsements.

   2.  Policy Evaluation Entity Discovery MUST fulfil policy
       requirements prior to conclusion of a successful discovery.  For
       example, Entities may be handling PII information in their
       processing and hence due to Legal and Governance restrictions,
       processing MAY only be allowed in certain geographical
       boundaries.

   3.  Protocol Requirements In order to discover correct Entities, the
       communicating parties MUST establish a common protocol.  The
       protocol must represent the essential discovery claims (such as
       capability information), upon whose processing a discovery match
       can be obtained.

5.  Proposed Solution

   // TO DO Specifcy Common Capability protocol that can be applied here

6.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

7.  Security Considerations

   Discovery intersection with Security

8.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

9.  References

9.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

9.2.  Informative References

   [RFC9334]  Birkholz, H., Thaler, D., Richardson, M., Smith, N., and
              W. Pan, "Remote ATtestation procedureS (RATS)
              Architecture", RFC 9334, DOI 10.17487/RFC9334, January
              2023, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9334>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   Yogesh Deshpande
   Arm
   Email: Yogesh.Deshpande@arm.com
